If your games keep stuttering and you
get low FPS or FPS drops on your PC or
laptop, this video is the one for you
because I'm going to show you how to
boost FPS, fix stutters, and FPS drops
by optimizing your Windows PC without
any BS. So, let's get right into it.
Starting off, we are going to be
disabling memory compression. Windows
tries to compress data on memory in
order to free up RAM. However, this in
turn increases the CPU load and hence
you get micro stutters and FPS drops. To
fix this, simply go down to your start
menu and search for PowerShell. Then run
it as administrator. And inside of here,
you need to type in get-m agent and then
hit enter. You can find all of these
commands from the description. Inside of
here, if the memory compression says
true, then it is turned on. So, we need
to disable this. And to do that, you
will need to type in disable- mm agent
and then space dash memory and
compression. Then hit enter. And it
should be disabled. Now, if I go ahead
and type in get mm agent, as you can
see, the memory compression is set to
false. Now, next up, we're going to be
disabling a lot of useless Windows
services that keep running in the
background and using the CPU and GPU
resources. These services are especially
detrimental to low-end PCs where the
resources are already limited. So, to
disable them, go down to your start menu
and search for services, then open it
up. Inside of here, the first one that
we're going to be disabling is called
CIS main. If you hover over it, it says
maintains and improves the system
performance over time. However, it does
this by caching a lot of system data and
storing application data into the memory
just so you can open a few apps a little
bit quicker. However, since this is
constantly running in the background,
it's one of the major reasons that
you're getting micro stutters and FPS
drops. So, to improve the gaming
performance, right click on it and go to
properties. Inside of here, click on
stop to stop it from running. And then
we're going to set the startup type to
disabled. Then hit apply and hit okay.
Now do the same thing for all of these
services that are listed on your screen.
Just go ahead, stop them and disable
them. You can pause the video here. Go
ahead and disable all of these services
and then come back for the next step.
All right. Now that I believe you have
disabled all of those useless services,
let's unlock the hidden Windows Ultimate
Performance Power Plan. It will not only
help you get more FPS, but it will also
fix any micro starters that are caused
due to power related configurations. So
to unlock this hidden power plan, you
will need to go down to your start menu
and search for CMD. Then run it as
administrator. And inside of here,
simply copy and paste this command from
the description. Then hit enter. And now
you will have the ultimate performance
power plan. To apply it, you will need
to go down to the start menu once more
and search for addit power plan. Then go
ahead and open it up. Go into the power
options. And under the show additional
plans, you will have the ultimate
performance power plan. So simply click
on it and that's it. Now you can close
both of these. Now there are a lot of
optimizations and tweaks that you can
apply to boost the performance of your
system. However, doing all of that
manually can take hours. So, I have
created this low-end optimization pack
for you that you can download from my
website. The link will be in the
description. Once you have it
downloaded, open it up. And we're going
to be starting off with the CPU
optimizations. Inside of here, you will
find the CPU priority. And depending on
your CPU, whether you have an AMD CPU or
an Intel CPU, open up the folder and
apply the registry file that is inside
of it. This is going to make sure that
your CPU is prioritizing games instead
of other applications. Then go back into
the CPU optimizations and run the MSI
utility as an admin. Inside of here,
select your GPU and check the MSI box.
Then set the interrupt priority to high
and then click on apply. Then close out
of this. Right click on unpark CPU and
run it as admin. Inside of here, make
sure that the system power plan is set
to ultimate performance and the core
parking index is set to 100%. Then hit
apply. Okay, and you can close out of
this. Moving on to GPU optimizations.
Inside of here, the first one is
clear.pat. right click on it and run it
as admin. This is going to clear all of
the GPU cache, ensuring that the older
built-up cache does not affect your
performance. Now, for these two, you
will need to apply the one depending on
your system specs. If you are not sure
about this, leave a comment down below
with your specs and I'll tell you which
one to apply. For the sake of the video,
I'm going to apply the low, medium
optimization. Now, we can move on to the
Windows optimizations. Starting off by
disabling game DVR. Both of these will
make sure that the game bar is
completely turned off and none of its
processes remain running in the
background, especially the game bar
presence writer. Next up is disable
spectre and meltdown, which are security
patches that are no longer required by
Windows since modern browsers come with
their own security patches. Hence, these
are just useless running in the
background. Then disable Darching will
disable driver searching with Windows
updates, it will not only help you
improve Windows performance, but it will
also make sure that you are not getting
any outdated drivers. Disable prefetch
will of course disable prefetch.
However, for older systems with only
hard drives and no SSDs, I wouldn't
recommend using this one. However, if
you have an SSD, then simply go ahead
and disable prefetch. Disable startup
delay will start the explorer as soon as
possible instead of the default delay.
Full screen fix will make sure that all
of your games run in exclusive full
screen, which is known to give you more
FPS and reduce input lag. Then game
optimizations are the generic game
priority optimizations and power
optimizations will change some of the AC
and DC indices as well as turn off power
throttling to ensure that you don't get
low FPS at high power usage. Going back
into the pack, let's move on to the
telemetry optimizations. Inside of here
is one of the best software to disable
Microsoft telemetry and spying services.
And despite its name, it does work on
Windows 11 as well. So right click on it
and run it as admin. Then all you need
to do is click on actions and then click
on apply only recommended settings. It
will ask you to create a system restore
point, which you should always do, but
for the video, I'm going to click no.
And there it is. All of these settings
have been applied. Simply close out of
this. And then it says that these
changes will be reverted at Windows
update. And you will need to apply these
once again. Hit yes. And now we can go
back and open up the keyboard and mouse
optimizations. The hover time will
reduce the time it takes for you to
hover over something and the tool tip to
show. The keyboard Q size reduces the
time it takes between you pressing the
keyboard key and the action registering
on your system. This can really help you
in competitive games. So, make sure that
you apply this one. Then, menu show
delay basically reduces the time it
takes when you right click on something
and this menu shows up. Mouse fix
improves the mouse curves to ensure
smoother mouse input. And mouse Q size
will do the same thing as the keyboard Q
size, helping you reduce the mouse input
delay. And once you are done with all of
these, you can delete the pack or keep
it. It's really up to you. Then,
finally, I have some general tips for
you to ensure that you're getting the
most performance out of your system. The
first tip is to make sure that you
always have at least 10% of your C drive
or the Windows drive completely free.
Yeah, I know I need to take my own
advice, which I will be doing. To free
up some space, you can always right
click on the drive, go to properties,
and run the disc cleanup. Then delete
anything that you don't need, and that
should help you recover some space. Next
one is to make sure that your GPU is in
thermal throttling. So, right click on
the taskbar and go to task manager.
Then, under the performance, click on
your GPU and check out the GPU
temperature while you are gaming. Ensure
that this temperature is always below
85° so your GPU doesn't thermal throttle
because when the temperature goes too
high, Windows will lower your GPU
performance in order to save the GPU
from damage. This will of course cause a
lot of stutters and lags, which is not
ideal. Another tip building off of this
is to clean out the dust from your
system from time to time. It'll help
improve the air flow and keep the
temperatures down, hence improving the
overall system performance. And if you
play games on your laptop, just make
sure that your laptop is plugged in
because laptops will always give you
more performance plugged in instead of
on battery. And to get even more
performance out of your system, you can
safely overclock your GPU by following
this very simple guide and get even more
FPS in your games.
[Music]
Hey. Hey. Hey.